As of March 13, 2019, we were tasked by our troubleshooting instructor to write an essay of 1000 words about our learnings in his subjects. Here it goes!
In our troubleshooting subject have learned many things and additional information regarding pc troubleshooting and many others. In the first half of our semester Engr. Ralph Vincent Galao being our first instructor taught us mainly about the main physical parts of a Computer system. He divided the class into 16 groups for these 16 topics. These topics include Microprocessor, Motherboard, Random Access Memory, Hard Disk Drive, keyboard, Computer Mouse, Monitor, Network Interface Card, Small Computer System Interface, Power Supply Unit, Expansion Cards, Video Cards, Router, Modem, Printer, and lastly the Scanner. Based on my learnings and somewhat based from its definition given by our classmates that  Microprocessor is a multipurpose, clock driven, register based, digital integrated circuit that accepts binary data as input, processes it according to instructions stored in its memory, and provide results as an output. Motherboard the motherboard is the main component of any branded or assembled PC, laptops, tablet or a mobile phone. T is a printed circuit which acts as the main platform for communication between al other components of a system. Random Access Memory is the best known form of computer memory. It is considered as volatile memory, which means that the stored information is lost when there is no known power. Hard Disk Drive, hard disk, hard drive or fixed drive is an electromechanical data storage device that uses magnetic storage to store and retrieve digital information using one or more rigid rapidly rotating disks or platters coated with magnetic material. Keyboard serves as the basic input system in the computers that are used by the humans. It looks similar to those found on electric typewriters, but with some additional key. It allows you to input letters, numbers and other symbols into a computer that can serve as a command or be used to type text. Computer mouse is an input device that controls a cursor in a GUI and can move and select text, icons, files, and folders. For desktop computers, the mouse is placed on a flat surface such as mouse pad or a desk and is placed in front of your computer. Monitor is an electronic visual computer display that includes a screen, circuitry and the case in which that circuitry is enclosed. Network Interface Card is a component that provides networking capabilities for a computer. It may enable a wired connection (such as Ethernet) or a wireless connection (such as WIFI) to a local network. Small Computer System Interface is abbreviated as SCSI and pronounced “skuzzy” is a set of protocols and disk I/O signalling specifications that became an ANSI standard in a986.Power Supply Unit or PSU converts main AC to low-voltage regulated DC power for the internal components of a computer. Expansion Cards are used to give a computer additional capabilities, such as enhanced video performance via graphics card. Video Card it is a PC component used to enhance the quality images showed on a display. Attached to the motherboard, it controls and calculates an image appearance on the screen. A Router is a hardware components that allows computers to connect with each other and other computer hardware. Printers are a type of computer peripheral device and that fall into two broad categories: 2d printers that print text and graphics into paper (or other media) and 3d printers that create physical objects. Scanner a scanner is a device that reads or copies information or images into a computer.
Through this way of teaching in troubleshooting these have helped us conquer our little stage fright in front of other while we are doing our reporting respectively. I can say that this I have gain basic knowledge through this introduction of components. We have done our 1st quiz during this time by Engr. Galao.
This time I will tell about my learnings and my insight during the time of Engr. Max Angelo Perin. He taught us many things in troubleshooting but most especially in baybayin language. As I recall, he is our 2nd instructor that taught us troubleshooting. At 1st he let us troubleshoot some common errors in a microprocessor called Raspberry Pie and a Personal Computer. In our group we were assigned to troubleshoot the raspberry pie. We were able to fix the little damage in it though mainly it is because the rpi were using was fixed already by the previous group. The other group tried to fixed and troubleshoot the ASUS desktop computer but sadly they were not able to fix it due to reasons that can’t be done immediately. The next thing is that he let us interchange the two topics thus letting us also experience the same thing the other group has experienced. In his time, we had two quizzes; this quizzes are mainly about our learnings during our troubleshooting activities. First quiz was all about Raspberry Pie troubleshooting and the second Quiz was all about the PC desktop troubleshooting. All the things happening during his term were all exciting and memorable. Memorable in a way that every time were having discussion about troubleshooting he would include the topic about baybayin language. It feels great to learn new things and discover how patriotic our instructor is. Despite of his lack of experience in teaching us about this subject, he would still make sure that he can give the best that he could give. Also give us the best knowledge in life. 
All throughout the journey together with Engr. Perin is life changing and a very inspiring one. I hope that this instructor of ours will still remain together with us in Bohol Island State University Main Campus. Even though we are hard headed sometimes and act like we don’t listen to his discussion he would still give us a perfect insight about troubleshooting. Keep inspiring others! Make the most out of it!! Daghan kaayong salamat Sir Max!
